Ifan Williams. What was he like?
Alright. Flashed his cash a bit.
The locals aren't keen on that.
See you tonight.
You've got your priorities right!
Have you even told her
about the interview?
Fuck-fuck! Heads! Heads!
You could've killed someone!
Leave. My. Things. Alone.
How many times must I tell you?
I need time to work out
how I'll tell my little boy...
..his father's dead.
Sorry. I tried to be quiet.
That's OK.
I was awake anyway.
There's coffee there.
Thank you.
Did you get any sleep?
I didn't even hear you come up.
Yeah, a bit.
Pointless lecturing you.
We both know you won't listen.
CAR HORN
My taxi's here.
Can I come over tonight?
Sure. Everything OK?
Yeah. Yeah, fine.
See you later.
DOOR OPENS AND CLOSES
KNOCK ON DOOR
HE OPENS THE DOOR
Come on. You can't be late again.
I'll see you there.
Nice try! I'll wait.
Get a move on!
Let's go!
Dion, come on!
I don't want to be late!
What's up with her?
Don't ask.
(VAUGHAN) OK...
..as you can see from the PM report,
cause of death was asphyxiation.
Bruising and abrasions to the torso
consistent with a severe beating.
Blunt force trauma
to the back of the head.
The victim was last seen
leaving the club...
..at 11.00pm on Tuesday night.
The PM report puts time of death
at between 11.00pm and 1.00am...
..so it's a small window.
Thank you, DS Vaughan. Where are we?
Just finished going through
the PM report.
Good morning.
Our preliminary investigations
have uncovered some information...
..about Ifan Williams's farm.
There were reports
of animal neglect.
A number of animals
were destroyed...
..in the months
before Ifan Williams's death...
..and selling restrictions
were put in place.
Anything useful from the vet?
Only that she'd been called in
to assess the situation.
Do we know who made the allegation?
It was done anonymously.
OK. Any sign of the CCTV footage
from the rugby club?
Not yet.
Phone them again.
We need it ASAP please.
Yes, Ma'am.
You have a list of everyone present
at the club that night.
Follow them all up today...
..and broaden the house-to-house
to the wider estate.
This was a violent attack and the
perpetrator is out there somewhere.
Let's find that person. Thank you.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Twenty Originals, please.
I thought you'd packed it in.
You and me both.
LOCAL MAN FOUND DEAD
Thank you.
You're welcome.
PHONE BEEPS
I'll stay with him if you like.
He'll be alright.
You're one of Lea's friends
aren't you?
Might be...
She's a nice girl.
A lot going for her.
HE SNEERS
I've always believed
we should lift people up...
..not drag them down.
Just mind your own business, yeah?
Nobody wants your help around here.
Good morning.
Sorry. I wasn't expecting you.
Is Mair here?
There was no-one at the bungalow.
Yes, she's inside.
They want to speak to you.
This won't take long.
You're obviously expecting people.
Come on, Guto. Let's get changed.
I'm sorry.
We know this is a difficult time.
How are you coping?
It's better if I'm busy.
Neighbours... people will
start to call in the next few days.
There's so much to do.
So much to be arranged.
Please, take a seat.
We wanted to ask you
a few questions.
Of course.
How long have you lived here,
Mrs Williams?
The farm was in Dai,
my husband's family.
We got married in 1972
and I moved here straightaway.
That was the done thing
in those days.
I noticed the cups and the rosettes.
Were those for the stock?
Yes.
They say there are
two kinds of farmers.
Those who like machines
and those who like animals.
Dai was a stockman.
It was in his nature.
Breeding animals like that
is an art.
Knowing every animal's tendencies.
Its strengths and its weaknesses.
We saw a report...
..from the Ministry.
A report about cattle
being destroyed about a year ago.
What has that got to do with this?
We're trying to get a sense
of Ifan's life.
His state of mind.
He forgot to vaccinate the herd,
that's all.
It's easily done.
There was a parasite on the land.
It gets wet here.
There was nothing to be done.
People are quick to judge
but it hurt us too.
We lost a lot of the bloodlines
that Dai bred over 50 years.
A lifetime's work gone
in less than an hour.
They shot them on the yard.
That must have been hard.
There was a commotion
as they herded them in.
So noisy.
And then silence.
I'll never forget it.
Dafydd was beside himself.
Dafydd?
He used to work here.
He worked here...
..for forty years.
He was almost part of the family.
SHE SIGHS
Did you bring a tractor for Granny?
I'm sorry.
We won't keep you any longer.
Do you know
where we can find Dafydd?
Where he always is.
In his mother's house
at Rhyd-y-Perren.
Thank you.
We'll see ourselves out.
SHE SIGHS
DOG BARKS
HUSHED CONVERSATIONS
Everyone had a cup of tea?
Yes.
What did they want?
The police.
This is not the time or the place.
KNOCK ON DOOR
DOOR OPENS
John!
I had to come.
Yes, of course.
Go through.
These numbers aren't stacking up.
They've delivered more bales
of wood shavings than we ordered.
Do you want me to ring the driver?
Let me double check it first.
I might have just made a mistake.
You're quiet today.
Are you OK?
Is that hawk still hanging around?
Maybe we should look it up.
There must be a way
we can get rid of it.
I don't want to hurt it.
No but you don't want it
to get at the birds.
Nope. Definitely a couple too many.
I'll ring the driver.
He can come back for them.
Or you could take them home for
your pigeons. No-one needs to know.
Are you sure you're OK, Glyn?
Yeah, I'm fine.
OK, I'll put
those two bales aside...
..and I'll call the driver
to come pick them up.
HE KNOCKS ON THE DOOR
Yes?
DS Owen Vaughan.
This is DCI Cadi John.
Can we have a word?
Yes. Come in.
Come through.
Take a seat.
We're sorry to call unannounced.
Do you have any idea why we're here?
I'm guessing it's about Ifan.
You've known the family for years.
Yes, I started working there when I
was in my twenties, many moons ago.
There were animal welfare issues
on the farm recently.
Someone made a complaint.
Was that person you?
No...
..but I would have done it
if nobody else had.
Farmers like Ifan
give us all a bad name.
In what way?
He lied.
Saying he's vaccinated them
but he hadn't.
He was negligent?
He shouldn't have been farming.
His heart wasn't in it.
Why didn't he just leave?
Just like that?
His father farmed there...
..and so did his grandfather
and his great-grandfather.
You left there a year ago?
Yes.
Can I ask why?
He said I stole some money
but I didn't.
Why would he do that?
He wanted me out of the way.
I didn't think he was up to the job
and he knew it.
It was like I was his conscience,
standing there.
Where were you
the night before last?
I didn't do it.
Nevertheless, I have to ask.
Where were you?
I was here.
Can anyone vouch for that?
What do you think?
We need to do a DNA swab test,
if that's alright with you.
Just to rule you out.
I'm sorry he's dead.
I really am.
I had nothing to do with it.
I've suffered enough,
thanks to that family.
I won't let it happen again.
Lea?
Sorry.
It's why we leave the door open.
I don't even believe.
The church is more than God.
It's about people...
..a community.
I suppose it's a space to be.
To listen.
I thought I was getting to grips
with everything that happened.
It's like things
are trying to pull me back.
Dragging me back.
Lea...
..you've shown remarkable strength.
You witnessed something terrible.
Your father went to prison.
And yet...
..you get up every day...
..and you try.
Does your father know about
everything you've achieved so far...
..being on the programme?
Have you seen him recently?
If it's the money for the train...
It's not that.
It's just...
SHE SIGHS
Listen, I've got to
get the vestry ready.
You can help me if you like.
It's up to you.
I'd better get back.
OK.
There's no rush.
Take your time.
Sion!
Downstairs, now!
Here he is - Sion Thomas.
Just some routine questions.
I'm PC Gwawr Daniels
and this is PC Ryan Davies.
I'm sure you've heard about
the murder of Ifan Williams?
He was last seen on Monday the
8th of February at the rugby club.
We're talking to everyone
who was there.
Can you confirm you were at the club
that night?
Yes. I went there for a drink
after work.
I went there around half seven
and I was home by nine.
Can someone vouch for that?
My brother. Glyn.
He's got learning difficulties.
I'm his carer.
I have to make sure
I'm not out too late.
Did you know Ifan Williams?
I knew who he was.
Everyone knows everyone around here.
We went to the same school.
He was two or three years older
than me. Same year as my brother.
What was he like at school?
Dunno.
Like everyone else I suppose.
Was there any trouble at the club?
Not when I was there.
Like I said, I was only there
for a quick drink after work.
I didn't talk to anyone.
OK. We won't keep you any longer.
Thank you for your time.
If you do remember something,
let us know won't you?
SIREN
DNA swab for Dafydd O'Connell.
Can you ask them to fast-track it?
Of course.
All those years
working for the same family...
..just to be tossed aside like that.
Dafydd?
Mm.
It's got to rankle...
..losing your job, your reputation,
your purpose.
Do you think he's involved?
He's certainly got a motive.
Let's keep an eye on his house.
Check on his comings and goings.
I know the PNC was clear...
..but check with the LIO...
..to see if they've got reports of
juvenile delinquency involving Ifan.
PHONE RINGS
Just a minute.
Hello?
Yes, speaking...
Thank you.
I wasn't expecting to hear so soon.
No, of course I'm pleased.
It was a tough interview.
And it's a yes, of course.
If you could let me have a few days
to talk it over with my Super...
..and then we can start
on the paperwork.
Yes. Me too.
And thank you again.
Bye.
HUSHED CONVERSATIONS
This place hasn't changed a bit.
I haven't been here for years.
HYMN PLAYS IN THE BACKGROUND
Sorry, who are you?
John. I was in school with Ifan.
Are they any closer to finding out
what happened?
He did alright for himself.
He always did
punch above his weight.
I never thought
he'd be a family man.
How many kids did he have?
We have one son.
Somebody's looking after him today.
I thought this show
would be too much for him.
People just want to
pay their respects.
You should be grateful
they turned up at all.
Will there be a public funeral for
those who couldn't make it today?
Is this not enough for you?
Just get out.
You what?
Get out.
Siwan, please...
I want everybody to leave right now.
If they had any respect at all,
they'd leave us in peace.
Please don't feel you have to leave.
It's alright, Mair.
He picked a good one.
Get out!
(MAIR) So sorry.
Thank you for calling.
I'm really sorry about this.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
SIWAN SOBS
Alright.
Piotr.
Thin ice, Thomas.
Alun.
Thanks, Boss.
Hang on! I'm short.
Too fucking right!
You've been late time after time.
Got a problem with that?
You know what you can do.
What are you fucking laughing at?
SPEAKS POLISH
Leave it, Sion!
Come on.
SHE KNOCKS ON THE DOOR
Cadi.
How can I help you?
Just got off the phone
with Liverpool.
I've been offered the job
and I've accepted.
I suppose congratulations
are in order.
It's quite an achievement.
Thank you.
You look a bit shocked.
I wasn't expecting it.
You must have impressed them.
DSI's seem to be getting younger
these days.
Makes them easier to mould, I guess.
Well, I wanted to tell you first.
I appreciate that.
I'll get onto the paperwork
so everything's ready.
Can you hold off on the announcement
for a day or two?
We need everyone's focus
on the case at the moment.
Of course.
Congratulations again.
Thank you.
Vaughan?
I've got to go. I'll call you later.
You OK here?
Yes, just going through
today's house-to-house.
Living the dream.
Ta-ta, Boss.
PIGEONS COO
GATE CLICKS
Sion?
DOOR OPENS
Glyn, it's OK, it's me...
..Father McEwan.
Can I come in?
OK but be quiet.
OK.
They're beautiful, aren't they?
Do you fly them every day?
Every morning... every night.
How do they find their way back?
When they're young, you fly them...
..and they make a map
in their heads.
But they go miles away
when they race.
They still know where home is.
They feel it.
What a nice instinct to have.
There's some frightening things
happened recently around here.
I thought I'd call
to see that you're OK.
That man got killed.
I heard them talking at work.
Has your brother
talked to you about it?
No.
But he's been home every night?
Most nights.
What are we doing here?
Quick pint. Come on.
Listen, I don't want to...
Fuck's sake, come on.
I said no!
Fine, do what the fuck you like.
What's up with you?
I'm sick of your fucking shit.
Hiya.
Hello.
Quarter past seven.
That's almost on time for you.
You know where the glasses are.
Something smells nice.
I made a curry.
It won't be long.
PHONE RINGS OUT
Hello?
Sion?
Is that you?
What the fuck did you do to Glyn?
Who do you think you are?
Touch him again and I'll kill you.
You'll kill me?!
We'll see about that.
Are you going to tell me
what's wrong?
You haven't said a word all night.
You came here to talk, didn't you?
I've been offered a new job.
DSI...
..in Liverpool.
When you say you've been offered
a new job what you mean is...
..you applied for a new job.
Yes.
They called today
to offer it to me...
..and I accepted.
I see.
I assume the interview was yesterday
and that's why you were late.
Yes.
I didn't want to say anything
until it was offered to me.
Don't you want to talk about this?
Rach?
Why? You didn't talk to me
about applying for the job.
You didn't even ask for my opinion
before you accepted the job...
..so why do you want to
talk to me now?
There we are then. Done deal.
I wasn't trying to
go behind your back.
It's the next logical step for me.
Yes - for you.
When I think of the future,
I think in terms of 'us'.
PHONE RINGS
PHONE CONTINUES TO RING
SHE REJECTS THE CALL
When do you start?
When are you leaving?
I'm not sure.
There are things to sort out first.
Really?
Liverpool isn't that far...
Don't patronise me.
Right, I'm going to bed.
You can let yourself out.
PHONE RINGS
Hiya.
(VAUGHAN) Sorry to disturb.
Are you OK?
What is it, Vaughan?
I've been going through the CCTV.
I think you should come in.
Yeah, OK.
I'm on my way.
Sion?
What happened?
Are you OK?
What are you doing here?
I'm sorry.
Let me help you.
No, it's fine.
What happened?
Nothing. I'm fine.
It's nothing.
You should get some ice on that.
I said I'm fine!
It was an accident, that's all.
If you're sure.
I'm sure.
Right, well...
..I'd better get on.
I just wanted to check on you...
..that's all.
I feel like
I've been neglecting you...
..especially considering everything
that's been happening recently.
I was talking to Glyn
about the man that was killed.
He said he was in school with him.
We were in school
with everyone around here.
We didn't know him.
Not anymore.
Of course.
It's just...
..a sudden death like that...
..can trigger things.
Memories.
I hope you don't mind.
I'm really tired.
Of course.
It's been a long day...
..for all of us.
Thanks for the tea, Glyn.
Your mother wasn't the type
to hold a grudge...
..to hold on to bitterness.
She would've wanted you to forgive
and move on.
That's what she would've done.
What are you trying to say?
Why would you say that now?
I just want you to know...
..I'm thinking of you...
..and I'm here...
..if you need to talk.
You've said that.
We know that.
If there's nothing else...
No.
Nothing.
Well... goodnight, Sion.
Hiya.
I was going through the CCTV.
At 10.36pm Ifan Williams goes out
for a cigarette.
I don't blame him.
Watch.
NO SOUND ON THE CCTV
Do we have a name?
Piotr Korecki.
A Polish national. A group of them
are working at Awel Fan.
We'd better bring him in...
..now.